iosevka_font/README.md, before:

# Build environment for Iosevka font

## Introduction

One of my favorite monospace fonts is
[Iosevka](https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka). A containarized build
environment will ensure that you have all of the correct build tools installed
without cluttering your system. This guide provides instructions on how to
build the Iosevka font in a container and also limited instructions on how
to build the font without a container.

These instructions apply to font versions 3.0.0 or higher and target a
Linux-based OS.

## Set up build environment

The build environment can be setup one of two different ways. The first is to
download all the build tools onto your computer manually or using a package
manager (we call this the *manual method*). Alternatively, you can create a
container with the build environment.

### Manual method

1. Install the dependencies mentioned in the [*Building from
   Source*](https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka#building-from-source) section.
2. Download the source code by running
    ```sh
    VERSION=3.0.1
    curl -L -O --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka/archive/v${VERSION}.tar.gz
    tar -xf v${VERSION}.tar.gz
    cd Iosevka-${VERSION}
    ```
3. Skip to **Build process** section of this file.

### Container method

Assuming you have Docker or podman installed on your computer, to create a
containarized build environment, change into the folder of the Dockerfiles and
run
```sh
# Using docker
docker build [optional build args] -t  iosevka_build . -f Dockerfile

# Using podman
podman build --format docker [optional build args] -t iosevka_build . -f Dockerfile
```

**NOTE:** Do not include `[optional build args]` when building the actual
container unless you know exactly what build arguments you want to use. For a
list of build arguments, search for the `ARG` lines in the Dockerfiles. The
build arguments are only used to download specific versions of the build
tools.

## Build process

For the build process, we will be following the [*Build Your Own
Style*](https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka#build-your-own-style) section in
the repo readme.

### Manual method

1. For steps 1 and 2 in *Build Your Own Style*, simply copy the sample build
   plan in the source code folder with
    ```
    cp private-build-plans.sample.toml private-build-plans.toml
    ```
   and edit the file.
1. Following the remaining steps in *Build Your Own Style*.

### Container method

1. Create a build plan by copying the sample plan in the font repo and editing
   it.
1. Place a copy of the build plan in a subfolder called, for example,
   `build_dir`.
1. Build the font with the command (replace docker with podman if necessary)
    ```sh
    docker run -it -v ./build_dir:/build iosevka_build
    ```
    Use the environment variable `FONT_VERSION` to specify the font version
    that you want to build. Otherwise the latest font version is built. You
    can also specify custom build arguments mentioned in *Build Your Own
    Style*. For example, to only build the TTF files of version 3.0.1, we
    would run
    ```sh
    docker run -it -e FONT_VERSION=3.0.1 -v ./build_dir:/build iosevka_build ttf::iosevka-custom
    ```
    **NOTES:**
    - If no custom build arguments are provided, the first build plan in
      `private-build-plans.toml` is used. Otherwise, you must specify
      everything you would normally put after `npm run build--`.
    - The `-it` option is used so that you can cancel the build by pressing `Ctrl+c` with your keyboard.
    - The container is not removed automatically so that you can debug the
      container.
1. Once the font files are built, they will be placed in a folder called
   `dist` inside `build_dir`.

### Try out the fonts

Copy the font files inside `dist` to `~/.local/share/fonts` and run `fc-cache`

## Helpful links

- https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka
- [Original Dockerfile](https://gist.github.com/tasuten/0431d8af3e7b5ad5bc5347ce2d7045d7)
- https://github.com/nodesource/distributions/blob/master/README.md
- https://premake.github.io/download.html#v5
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6482377/check-existence-of-input-argument-in-a-bash-shell-script
- https://gist.github.com/steinwaywhw/a4cd19cda655b8249d908261a62687f8
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1247812/how-to-use-grep-to-get-anything-just-after-name

## My font style

I based my custom style off the Ubuntu Mono style. I used
`params/variants.toml` in the source code to see the differences between
styles. I also consulted the font repo readme to see what variants are enabled
by default.

My last build uses the following `private-build-plans.toml`

```toml
[buildPlans.miosevka]               # <miosevka> is your plan name. Font files will have this name.
family = "Miosevka"
design = ['sp-fixed', 'v-at-threefold', 'v-a-doublestorey', 'v-f-straight', 'v-i-italic', 'v-l-italic', 'v-m-shortleg', 'v-y-straight', 'v-brace-straight', 'v-one-base-serif', 'v-numbersign-slanted']
# upright = ["upright-styles"]            # Uncomment this line to set styles for upright only
# italic = ["italic-styles"]              # Uncomment this line to set styles for italic only
# oblique = ["oblique-styles"]            # Uncomment this line to set styles for oblique only
hintParams = ["-a", "sss"]                # Optional custom parameters for ttfautohint

###################################################################################################
# Override default building weights
# Only build the following weights.

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.light]
shape = 300
menu  = 300
css   = 300

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.regular]
shape = 400  # Weight for glyph shapes.
menu  = 400  # Weight for the font's names.
css   = 400  # Weight for webfont CSS.

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.medium]
shape = 500
menu  = 500
css   = 500

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.bold]
shape = 700
menu  = 700
css   = 700

# End weight section
###################################################################################################

###################################################################################################
# Override default building widths
# For a wide variant of this font, change shape value from 5 to 7.

[buildPlans.miosevka.widths.normal]
shape = 5          # Width grade of glyph shapes. NOT actual character width.
menu  = 5          # Width grade for the font's names. NOT actual character width.
css   = "normal"   # "font-stretch' property of webfont CSS.

# End width section
###################################################################################################
```

Commit message:

Allow user to build from the dev branch

iosevka_font/README.md, after:

# Build environment for Iosevka font

## Introduction

One of my favorite monospace fonts is
[Iosevka](https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka). A containarized build
environment will ensure that you have all of the correct build tools installed
without cluttering your system. This guide provides instructions on how to
build the Iosevka font in a container and also limited instructions on how
to build the font without a container.

These instructions apply to font versions 3.0.0 or higher and target a
Linux-based OS.

## Set up build environment

The build environment can be setup one of two different ways. The first is to
download all the build tools onto your computer manually or using a package
manager (we call this the *manual method*). Alternatively, you can create a
container with the build environment.

### Manual method

1. Install the dependencies mentioned in the [*Building from
   Source*](https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka#building-from-source) section.
2. Download the source code by running
    ```sh
    VERSION=3.0.1
    curl -L -O --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka/archive/v${VERSION}.tar.gz
    tar -xf v${VERSION}.tar.gz
    cd Iosevka-${VERSION}
    ```
3. Skip to **Build process** section of this file.

### Container method

Assuming you have Docker or podman installed on your computer, to create a
containarized build environment, change into the folder of the Dockerfiles and
run
```sh
# Using docker
docker build [optional build args] -t  iosevka_build . -f Dockerfile

# Using podman
podman build --format docker [optional build args] -t iosevka_build . -f Dockerfile
```

**NOTE:** Do not include `[optional build args]` when building the actual
container unless you know exactly what build arguments you want to use. For a
list of build arguments, search for the `ARG` lines in the Dockerfiles. The
build arguments are only used to download specific versions of the build
tools.

## Build process

For the build process, we will be following the [*Build Your Own
Style*](https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka#build-your-own-style) section in
the repo readme.

### Manual method

1. For steps 1 and 2 in *Build Your Own Style*, simply copy the sample build
   plan in the source code folder with
    ```
    cp private-build-plans.sample.toml private-build-plans.toml
    ```
   and edit the file.
1. Following the remaining steps in *Build Your Own Style*.

### Container method

1. Create a build plan by copying the sample plan in the font repo and editing
   it.
1. Place a copy of the build plan in a subfolder called, for example,
   `build_dir`.
1. Build the font with the command (replace docker with podman if necessary)
    ```sh
    docker run -it -v ./build_dir:/build iosevka_build
    ```
    Use the environment variable `FONT_VERSION` to specify the font version
    that you want to build. Otherwise the latest font version is built. You
    can also specify custom build arguments mentioned in *Build Your Own
    Style*. For example, to only build the TTF files of version 3.0.1, we
    would run
    ```sh
    docker run -it -e FONT_VERSION=3.0.1 -v ./build_dir:/build iosevka_build ttf::iosevka-custom
    ```
    **NOTES:**
    - Use `FONT_VERSION=dev` to build the bleeding edge code from the dev
      branch.
    - If no custom build arguments are provided, the first build plan in
      `private-build-plans.toml` is used. Otherwise, you must specify
      everything you would normally put after `npm run build--`.
    - The `-it` option is used so that you can cancel the build by pressing `Ctrl+c` with your keyboard.
    - The container is not removed automatically so that you can debug the
      container.
1. Once the font files are built, they will be placed in a folder called
   `dist` inside `build_dir`.

### Try out the fonts

Copy the font files inside `dist` to `~/.local/share/fonts` and run `fc-cache`

## Helpful links

- https://github.com/be5invis/Iosevka
- [Original Dockerfile](https://gist.github.com/tasuten/0431d8af3e7b5ad5bc5347ce2d7045d7)
- https://github.com/nodesource/distributions/blob/master/README.md
- https://premake.github.io/download.html#v5
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6482377/check-existence-of-input-argument-in-a-bash-shell-script
- https://gist.github.com/steinwaywhw/a4cd19cda655b8249d908261a62687f8
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1247812/how-to-use-grep-to-get-anything-just-after-name

## My font style

I based my custom style off the Ubuntu Mono style. I used
`params/variants.toml` in the source code to see the differences between
styles. I also consulted the font repo readme to see what variants are enabled
by default.

My last build uses the following `private-build-plans.toml`

```toml
[buildPlans.miosevka]               # <miosevka> is your plan name. Font files will have this name.
family = "Miosevka"
design = ['sp-fixed', 'v-at-threefold', 'v-a-doublestorey', 'v-f-straight', 'v-i-italic', 'v-l-italic', 'v-m-shortleg', 'v-y-straight', 'v-brace-straight', 'v-one-base-serif', 'v-numbersign-slanted']
# upright = ["upright-styles"]            # Uncomment this line to set styles for upright only
# italic = ["italic-styles"]              # Uncomment this line to set styles for italic only
# oblique = ["oblique-styles"]            # Uncomment this line to set styles for oblique only
hintParams = ["-a", "sss"]                # Optional custom parameters for ttfautohint

###################################################################################################
# Override default building weights
# Only build the following weights.

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.light]
shape = 300
menu  = 300
css   = 300

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.regular]
shape = 400  # Weight for glyph shapes.
menu  = 400  # Weight for the font's names.
css   = 400  # Weight for webfont CSS.

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.medium]
shape = 500
menu  = 500
css   = 500

[buildPlans.miosevka.weights.bold]
shape = 700
menu  = 700
css   = 700

# End weight section
###################################################################################################

###################################################################################################
# Override default building widths
# For a wide variant of this font, change shape value from 5 to 7.

[buildPlans.miosevka.widths.normal]
shape = 5          # Width grade of glyph shapes. NOT actual character width.
menu  = 5          # Width grade for the font's names. NOT actual character width.
css   = "normal"   # "font-stretch' property of webfont CSS.

# End width section
###################################################################################################
```
